Tech docs (#105)
microsoft/ReactorPlanning: docs/peparing-your-session.md

# Before the stream

> Delivering an online session involves a little more than taking one you've done in person and talking into a camera. You want to consider the environment from which you'll be speaking, make sure it fits the general tone of the Reactors, and you account for questions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Delivering an online session involves a little more than talking one you've done in person and talking into a camera. You want to consider the environment from which you'll be speaking, make sure it fits the general tone of the Reactors, and you account for questions.
```

  - Soundproofing not needed
- Have a clean backdrop behind you; again, nothing fancy
  - Feel free to show some personality!
    - Bookshelves with books and other nick-knacks are great!
  - If you want to invest in a green screen you can, but this is not needed

## Online presentations

Delivering an online presentation focuses on different skills than an in person event. You will want to take a little time to update your presentation and skill set before going live.

### Talking into the void

Unlike an in-person event, you won't receive immediate feedback from your audience about how things are going. This can be a bit unsettling the first time you deliver a session, but it will become more comfortable with experience.

- You may find your timing will be different than an in-person event
  - Some speakers talk faster because there is no audience to interrupt them
  - Some speakers talk more because there is no audience to interrupt them
- Practice presenting to the camera
  - Will help get you comfortable talking to a camera
    - Remember you will be providing all of the energy for the presentation
  - Will help you get accustomed to your pacing

> 

Reviewer: Might be good to add something about the delay. Ex:
- Rememer that there is a slight delay from when you speak and when it is broadcasted to the audience. Typically 20-30 seconds

Reviewer: Oh, but you do add that a bit down below :)

### Plan for questions

> Presenting while keeping an eye on the chat window is a skill which takes time to develop. It's always recommended to have a mentor in the chat to answer common questions (like links to docs or other videos), handle the easy questions, or anything off topic. Even with a mentor, you will want to have a strategy for handling questions. Some options:

Reviewer: mentor -> moderator.

> - **Easiest** Let the mentor answer all questions while you present

Reviewer: mentor -> moderator

# Before the stream

> Delivering an online session involves a little more than talking one you've done in person and talking into a camera. You want to consider the environment from which you'll be speaking, make sure it fits the general tone of the Reactors, and you account for questions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Delivering an online session involves a little more than changing what you're looking at when you're talking from a person to a camera. You'll also want to consider the environment from which you'll be speaking, make sure it fits the general tone of the Reactors, and you account for questions.
```

Reviewer 2: I really wasn't sure what you were trying to say in that first sentence so I took a guess

Author: I'm not sure what you're trying to say in your rework :-D

## Physical environment

While you can stream from any room you like, there are a couple of core minimum requirements you will want to consider.

- Ensure you are lit from above or in front of you; back-lighting will cause you to be too dark

>   - Special lighting is not required, but you may want to consider it (details below)

Reviewer 2: Did you mean to link to the hardware link for lighiting?

>   - Special lighting is not required, but you may want to consider it (details below)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Special lighting is not required, but you may want to consider it (see [lighting recommendations](hardware.md#Lighting))
```

- You will need a quiet room, preferably with a door
  - Soundproofing not needed
- Have a clean backdrop behind you; again, nothing fancy
  - Feel free to show some personality!
    - Bookshelves with books and other nick-knacks are great!
  - If you want to invest in a green screen you can, but this is not needed

## Online presentations

Delivering an online presentation focuses on different skills than an in person event. You will want to take a little time to update your presentation and skill set before going live.

### Talking into the void

> Unlike an in-person event, you won't receive immediate feedback from your audience about how things are going. This can be a bit unsettling the first time you deliver a session, but it will become more comfortable with experience.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Unlike an in-person event, you won't receive immediate feedback from your audience about how things are going. This is both because there is a delay from when you say something to when it is broadcast, and because the only feedback you will receive is through chat comments instead of the facial reactions of your audience. This can be a bit unsettling the first time you deliver a session, but it will become more comfortable with experience.
```

Author: ```suggestion
Because there is an inherent delay when broadcasting, you won't receive immediate feedback from your audience. This can be a bit unsettling the first time you deliver a session, but it will become more comfortable with experience.
```

- You may find your timing will be different than an in-person event
  - Some speakers talk faster because there is no audience to interrupt them

>   - Some speakers talk more because there is no audience to interrupt them

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Some speakers talk more because there is no audience to interrupt them
  - Some speakers talk more slowly because there is no audience to provide feedback that they've understood
```

- Practice presenting to the camera
  - Will help get you comfortable talking to a camera
    - Remember you will be providing all of the energy for the presentation
  - Will help you get accustomed to your pacing

### Plan for questions

> Presenting while keeping an eye on the chat window is a skill which takes time to develop. It's always recommended to have a mentor in the chat to answer common questions (like links to docs or other videos), handle the easy questions, or anything off topic. Even with a mentor, you will want to have a strategy for handling questions. Some options:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Presenting while keeping an eye on the chat window is a skill which takes time to develop. It's always recommended to have a moderator in the chat to answer common questions (like links to docs or other videos), handle the easy questions, or anything off topic. Even with a mentor, you will want to have a strategy for handling questions. Some options:
```

> - **Easiest** Let the mentor answer all questions while you present

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Easiest** Let the moderator answer all questions while you present
```
